In this video I'll explain quality of service settings and how the NSX underlay network can actually
respect values configured on the inner header's of our packets and frames.
So let's start out by just explaining a couple of basics like classes of service and DCP tags are used
to provide quality of service.
Our class of service tags are enforced at Layer 2 and our DCP tags are enforced at Layer 3 so when we're
configuring these values we're looking to prioritize certain types of traffic.
And if the physical network is congested or overwhelmed sometimes packets get dropped.
Our goal is to make sure that if packets are going to get dropped that they're not are really important
packets.
So we might set up quality of service to prioritize certain virtual machines over others in this quality
of service.
Tagging can be done at the guest OS level or it can be done by a physical switch but we can also perform
quality of service tagging using the Vee's fair distributed switch.
And traffic that is tagged with a lower priority is considered to be discard eligible.
Right so let's say for example VM one generates some traffic and that traffic arrives at the VSD for
distributed switch and is tagged according to the quality of service policy that we've created as that
packet now traverses the physical network.
These quality of service values will be respected.
And this packet will take precedence over traffic that has a lower priority level.
So that's how it works when we've got a virtual machine that's connected to a VSE for a distributed
switch.
Now what happens when those class of service and DCP tasks are encapsulated within a V xplain how to.
So here we see the exact same packet with the same quality of service values and it's hitting a logical
switch.
And it's destined for some VM on another.
Yes XCI host.
So this is a packet that needs to traverse the underlying network and it has to flow over the physical
network.
And that means that this packet is going to be encapsulated with VX manhunters the destination IP and
the destination MAC.
Well those are going to be the addresses of this V tap over here the tap on the second host so as we
provide those new lair of outer header's for this packet the class of service and DCP values are going
to be trapped on the inner frame and they're not going to be visible to the physical network hardware
and therefore we're going to lose these quality of service configurations.
Well fortunately that's now the way that it works.
All right those quality of service values will actually be copied to the outer headers of the VX land
frame to ensure that the proper quality of service settings are still respected.
So now is this packet traverses the physical network.
It will be prioritized according to the class of service and DCP tags.
One final note that I'd like to make here is VX excellent offload the excellent offload is a feature
that you should be aware of for your VCP certification.
So what is the excellent offload.
Well if you're familiar with network features like TCAP check some offload or large receive offload
the excellent offload works very similar to that if you have a physical adapter installed in your ESX
host that supports the excellent offload.
What will happen is rather than the the tap being responsible for that extra work load of encapsulating
a frame with those additional outer headers the physical adapter will actually supply the resources
to accomplish that encapsulation.
So it's simply a way to offload some work from essentially the you of the ESX host you're offloading
work onto the physical adapter itself and making the excellent encapsulation work more efficiently
so in review we learned about class of service tags and how they're used to provide quality of service
at Layer 2 and DCP tags that are respected by our layer 3 routers.
So they're used to provide quality of service that Leora 3.
We learned that these values are not trapped within the inner Hetter but are actually copied from the
inner header to the VX line outer as data is encapsulated and sent over the physical underlying network.
We also learned how the excellent offload can help reduce the usage of your ESX I host by performing
the excellent encapsulation on the actual physical network adapter hardware.